Priority list

1. Improving the segmentation of cells - Daniel applied a local threshold (slice by slice). Applying this approach, he couldn't get a big improvement in the number of segmented cells. Thus, Daniel will work on a better segmentation approach. In the meantime, we will try out the current slice-by-slice segmentation on a larger set of data to assess the improvement. To do so, Daniel will provide us with the segmentation approach.

The segmentation is crucial as we have to make sure that we have no bias in the segmentation of cells, i.e. maybe we exclude cells that are located deep in the embryo. The optimized algorithm will be compared with what we see with our eyes/brain using data from a few embryos.

2. Projection of heatmaps (each shell/layer) onto spheres - The shell approach that Daniel presented clearly shows that there is a prominent difference in the distribution of cells when browsing the different layers/shells. In order to reliably identify regions that are more or less populated by cells we need a projection of heatmaps onto spheres. The current way/visualization is not intuitive and very hard to interpret. We want to see the heatmap as a sphere like looking at the globe. And there should be the option to rotate it.

2.1 We would like to see the MIP heat maps for each shell/layer. Let’s generate it exactly the same way we made the heat maps we got so far, just using shells/layers as a source. We think that using the 10 shells should be good.
We want to compare them. Therefore, we have to make sure we colour them so that the same values from different heat maps or shells have the same colour. 

2.2. Normalization of Color-coding - We want to present the heatmap values as percentage of the cells in the grid unit (compared to the total amount of cells in the dataset). Additionally, we would colour it in two ways: I) local maximum gets red and the minimum gets blue (to compare regions within the dataset) II) all datasets get the same colouring (to compare among different datasets/experiments).

2.3 Also a "slider" will be incorporated that allows us to finetune the scaling if needed. Third, there will be a feature that subtracts two particular heatmaps from each other to reveal remarkable features/regions.

3. Nuclei density heatmaps - The heatmap for the nuclei is supposed to be generated from the 3D data and not from the 2D MIPs. Further statistics is required for reliably extracting any information from the nuclei heatmaps.

4. Adjustment of the Evaluation GUI - To feel more certain during our data evaluation (accept/reject) the dimensions of the "pannels" will be adjusted to the original size (from rectangle to square)

5. Segmentation of landmarks - Depending on our  experiments, (e.g. manipulations altering the environment of the embryo), we might face GFP landmarks that look different and might ask for a different segmentation/registration approach. This task should be kept in our mind for the future. 

6. Registration of shortened GFP landmark datasets


A short test message!
